# Predictive-Modeling-of-Generous-Tippers-for-Taxi

Developed a predictive model to identify customers who are generous tippers for NYC Taxi and Limousine fares. Utilized taxi data including trip distance (this feature was engineered) and the total amount of the ride. Conducted an A/B test to determine the relationship between fare amount and payment type. Applied multiple linear regression for tip amount prediction. Key features included passenger count, mean distance, mean duration, rush hour and vendor id. Built random forest and XGBoost models, with random forest emerging as the champion model, achieving an F1 score of 0.723 and an overall accuracy of 0.686. One key insight noted was: encouraging customers to pay via credit cards can generate more revenue for taxi cab drivers. The challenges faced were regarding addressing missing values and class imbalance. It would be very helpful to have past tipping behavior for each customer. One of the limitation of the model is that though it predicted the most important features, it’s still not clear how they influence tipping. The future work on this model could be regarding Vendor ID. It is the most predictive feature and it would be worth performing statistical tests on the different vendors to see how they attract more generous customers. Additionally, accurate tip values for customers who pay with cash would be valuable. Having more data would be beneficial, as it would allow the creation of a unique feature for each pickup/drop-off combination.
